OSDOCS 12363: Added migration from v1 to v2 section in oc-mirror docs (#87754)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oc-mirror-migration-differences.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * oc-mirror-migration-v1-to-v2.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="oc-mirror-migration-differences_{context}"]
= Differences between oc-mirror plugin v1 and v2

> Before migrating from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2, you can check differences between oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2. Review the following:

Reviewer: I like the highlights you used in this section. It makes it easy to spot what needs to change.
I would even use the bold text to highlight the change to make. But I don't know how that would look, or if it would help make it more readable..
Instead of `differences` , maybe we need to talk about changes from v1 to v2?

> Before migrating from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2, you can check differences between oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2. Review the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before migrating from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2, you can check differences between oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2 below:
```

. *Explicit version selection*: Users must explicitly specify `--v2` when using `oc-mirror`. If no version is specified, v1 is executed by default. This behavior is expected to change in future releases (4.19 or later), where `--v2` will be the default.
. *Command line changes*:   

> - `mirror` to `mirror`: Introduces `--workspace` in the command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `mirror` to `mirror`: Requires `--v2` and introduces `--workspace` in the command line.
```

- `mirror to disk` & `disk to mirror`: Requires `--v2` and mandates `file://` for disk locations.

. *API version update*: The `ImageSetConfiguration` API version changes from `v1alpha2` (v1) to `v2alpha1` (v2). You must manually update their configuration files before migration.
. *Configuration changes*: 
- `storageConfig` must be removed in oc-mirror plugin v2.
- Incremental mirroring is now handled automatically through the working directory/local cache.

> . *Changes in output paths*: Verify mirrored content in the new paths after migration.

Reviewer 2: It is not clear for me what we want to say with `output paths` here. Is this all about the cluster resources generated or is it the entire oc-mirror workspace?

Author: Change it to `results directory`.

- Outputs in oc-mirror plugin v2 are not stored in the same location as oc-mirror plugin v1.
- You must check the cluster-resources folder under the working directory for:
** IDMS (`ImageDigestMirrorSet`)
** ITMS (`ImageTagMirrorSet`)
** `CatalogSource`
** `ClusterCatalog`

> . *Workspace and directory naming*: Follow this to prevent any potential data inconsistencies when transitioning between versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. *Workspace and directory naming*: Follow the new oc-mirror v2 convention to prevent any potential data inconsistencies when transitioning between versions.
```

- The v1 `oc-mirror-workspace` is no longer needed.
- Use a new directory for oc-mirror plugin v2 to avoid conflicts.

. *Replacing ICSP with IDMS/ITMS*:
- In oc-mirror plugin v2, `ImageContentSourcePolicy` (ICSP) is replaced by `ImageDigestMirrorSet` (IDMS) and `ImageTagMirrorSet` (ITMS).

> - Remove existing ICSPs before applying IDMS/ITMS.

Reviewer: hi @kasturinarra , @zhouying7780 
Can you help us confirm it is safe to remove ICSP prior to applying IDMS? or if we need to instruct the user to first apply IDMS, ITMS then remove ICSP?

Reviewer 3: ICSP, IDMS and ITMS are different resource , so no necessary to remove ICSP prior to apply the IDMS, but if we run the delete action , we must remove the ICSP.

. *Handling image deletion*: To delete operator index images, you must manually add them to `DeleteImageSetConfiguration`.
- Use `--delete-v1-images` with `--generate` to remove oc-mirror plugin v1 images.

> - oc-mirror plugin v2 does not automatically delete operator index images mirrored with oc-mirror plugin v1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- oc-mirror plugin v2 does not automatically delete operator index image mirrored with oc-mirror plugin.
```

oc-mirror v2 does not delete operator index image for v1 and also for v2, that's why I removed the version from the sentence.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * oc-mirror-migration-v1-to-v2.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="oc-mirror-migration-differences_{context}"]
= Changes from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2

Before migrating from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2, you can check differences between oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2 below:

. *Explicit version selection*: Users must explicitly specify `--v2` when using `oc-mirror`. If no version is specified, v1 is executed by default. This behavior is expected to change in future releases (4.19 or later), where `--v2` will be the default.
. *Command line changes*:   
- `mirror` to `mirror`: Requires `--v2` and introduces `--workspace` in the command line.

> - `mirror to disk` & `disk to mirror`: Requires `--v2` and mandates `file://` for disk locations.

Reviewer 3: Could we list the command : https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/87754#discussion_r1946343005  here.

. *API version update*: The `ImageSetConfiguration` API version changes from `v1alpha2` (v1) to `v2alpha1` (v2). You must manually update their configuration files before migration.
. *Configuration changes*: 
- `storageConfig` must be removed in oc-mirror plugin v2.
- Incremental mirroring is now handled automatically through the working directory/local cache.

> . *Changes in results directory*: Verify mirrored content in the `cluster resources directory` after the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. *Changes in results directory*: all custom resources to be applied to the disconnected cluster are generated in the `<workspace_path>/working-dir/cluster-resources` directory after the migration.
```

- Outputs in oc-mirror plugin v2 are not stored in the same location as oc-mirror plugin v1.
- You must check the cluster-resources folder under the working directory for:
** IDMS (`ImageDigestMirrorSet`)
** ITMS (`ImageTagMirrorSet`)
** `CatalogSource`
** `ClusterCatalog`

> 

Reviewer: ** `UpdateService`

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * oc-mirror-migration-v1-to-v2.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="oc-mirror-migration-differences_{context}"]
= Changes from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2

Before migrating from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2, you can check differences between oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2 below:

. *Explicit version selection*: Users must explicitly specify `--v2` when using `oc-mirror`. If no version is specified, v1 is executed by default. This behavior is expected to change in future releases (4.19 or later), where `--v2` will be the default.

. Commands for mirroring workflows have changed to align with oc-mirror plugin v2's new workflow.

.. For mirror-to-disk, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc-mirror --config isc.yaml file://some-dir --v2
----

.. For disk-to-mirror, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc-mirror --config isc.yaml --from file://some-dir docker://remote-registry --v2
----

.. For mirror-to-mirror, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc-mirror --config isc.yaml --workspace file://some-dir docker://remote-registry --v2
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> `--workspace` is now required for mirror-to-mirror operation.

Reviewer 4: This change should ideally be done before merging given that it's a quick fix.

====

. *API version update*: The `ImageSetConfiguration` API version changes from `v1alpha2` (v1) to `v2alpha1` (v2). You must manually update the configuration files before migration.
. *Configuration changes*: 

> - `storageConfig` must be removed in oc-mirror plugin v2. 

Reviewer 4: This can be saved for post-GA since it would probably involve confirmation with SME/QE

> - Incremental mirroring is now handled automatically through the working directory/local cache.

Reviewer 5: add `or` instead of a `/`

 *Changes in results directory*: all custom resources to be applied to the disconnected cluster are generated in the `<workspace_path>/working-dir/cluster-resources` directory after the migration.
- Outputs in oc-mirror plugin v2 are not stored in the same location as oc-mirror plugin v1.
- You must check the cluster-resources folder under the working directory for:
** IDMS (`ImageDigestMirrorSet`)
** ITMS (`ImageTagMirrorSet`)
** `CatalogSource`
** `ClusterCatalog`
** `UpdateService`

. *Workspace and directory naming*: Follow the new oc-mirror v2 convention to prevent any potential data inconsistencies when transitioning between versions.
- The v1 `oc-mirror-workspace` is no longer needed.

> - Use a new directory for oc-mirror plugin v2 to avoid conflicts.

Reviewer 5: To be safe better to highlight the above two points about `workspace no longer needed` and use new dir for oc-mirror plugin v2 to avoid conflicts.

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="oc-mirror-migration-differences_{context}"]
= Changes from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2

Before migrating from oc-mirror plugin v1 to v2, see the following differences between oc-mirror plugin v1 and v2:

* Explicit version selection: Users must explicitly specify `--v2` when using `oc-mirror`. If no version is specified, v1 is executed by default. This behavior is expected to change in future releases, where `--v2` will be the default.

* Updated commands: Commands for mirroring workflows have changed to align with oc-mirror plugin v2's new workflow.

** For mirror-to-disk, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc-mirror --config isc.yaml file://<directory_name> --v2
----

** For disk-to-mirror, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc-mirror --config isc.yaml --from file://<directory_name> docker://<remote_registry> --v2
----

** For mirror-to-mirror, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc-mirror --config isc.yaml --workspace file://<directory_name> docker://<remote_registry> --v2
----
+
[NOTE]
====
`--workspace` is now required for mirror-to-mirror operation.
====

> . API version update: The `ImageSetConfiguration` API version changes from `v1alpha2` (v1) to `v2alpha1` (v2). You must manually update the configuration files before migration.
> 
> . Configuration changes: 

Reviewer 4: The rest of the list items in this section starting from here and going to line 60 still need to be changed to unordered bullets (`.` changed to `*`). Right now there is a mix and that definitely must be fixed before merging:
```suggestion
* API version update: The `ImageSetConfiguration` API version changes from `v1alpha2` (v1) to `v2alpha1` (v2). You must manually update the configuration files before migration.

* Configuration changes: 
```
